This might sound crazy, but after watching
hours of footage from the last several months
of debates and interviews, I say this with
confidence, Donald Trump is a master persuader.
He gets how people make decisions and he speaks
in ways that influence people without them
even realizing how. So whether you love him
or hate him, there's a lot to learn from his
tactics, and if you watch till the end of
this video, you'll learn a ton, not just on
how to influence other people, but on how
you are influenced yourself. And before we
get started, I want to give out a shout out
to Scott Adams. He's been writing about Donald
Trump's persuasion for months and I owe him
for pointing out some of these tactics, so
there's a link in the description to his blog
if you want to check it out. In the meantime
let's start with the double bind.
You said in September 30th that ISIS was not
a factor.
Am I talking, or are you talking, Jeb?
I'm talking right now. I'm talking.
You can go back. You're not talking. You interrupted
me, Jeb.
September 30th, you said it.
Are you apologizing, Jeb? No. Am I allowed
to finish?
So let's take a look at this perspective on
Jeb Bush. Donald said, "Are you going to apologize?
No," answering for Jeb, so that gives Jeb
a couple of options. One, he can not say anything,
but if he doesn't say anything, Donald has
already predicted that he's not going to apologize
for interrupting. Jeb loses, Donald wins.
Okay, option 2: He can interrupt Donald again,
but Donald has already accused him of being
an interrupter so he looks like a jerk if
he continues to do that. Donald wins. Or,
he can apologize, in which case, Donald wins
again. All of the outs within the frame that
Donald has put on Jeb lead to victory for
Donald in this exchange. That is the power
of a double binder. There's no good option
here. The only way to deal with this if this
happens to you is to create a new frame, which
is probably a topic for another video. I don't
want to touch on it here, but let's look at
an example of another great double bind just
a few seconds later.
Am I allowed to finish?
Go ahead, Mr. Trump.
Little bit embarrassing there, Donald.
Now you're trying to build up your energy,
Jeb, but it's not working very well.
There you go, another great double bind. Donald
has been taunting Jeb throughout these debates
for having low energy. So, in saying this,
what he does is either make Jeb looks like
someone who is reacting to Donald's taunts
as he tries to be more high energy, in which
case, Donald wins, or Jeb goes back to low
energy saying, "No, you can't control me,
Donald." But then, Donald just gets the steam
rolling in the entire conversation anyway.
These frames are constant ways that Donald
was able to assert power. He doesn't give
people other options, and he's been doing
this for years. Now, the double bind protects
Trump from downside, but how does he get his
ideas into your head? His most basic tool is
simple repetition.
We need the toughness. We need strength.
We need strength. We need tough people. We
need toughness.
We have to be much tougher. We have to be
much stronger than we've been.
you're a tough guy, Jeb, I know.
When they called me today they were so apologetic.
They called me up this morning, they were
so apologetic.
When they called me this morning, they were
apologizing.
And then, the big granddaddy of all repetition;
I have never seen anything like this in my life.
We don't win any more. We don't win any more
in our country, Shawn. We don't win any more.
We used to win. We don't win any more. We
don't win with trade. We don't win with war.
We can't even beat ISIS, and we're gonna win.
If I win, I will tell you, if I win, we all
win because we are gonna win.
Now, you might be watching this and think
this is all silly. This couldn't possibly
be effective, and, if so, only on dumb people,
but it's actually extremely effective on all
human beings, that's why companies have jingles.
You see, we don't consciously know how we
form our opinions, but once something gets
into our head, we tend to defend it, regardless
of how it got there. So Donald Trump hammers
home these very, very simple ideas, and I
know that the next clip is from a movie. I
inserted it just because I think it's a fun
commonality, but it actually gets its right.
We, as humans, don't have any easy time with
complex facts and figures. It's these simple
ideas that take root in our brain.
We need the simplest version of the idea in
order for it to grow, and, actually, in your
subject's mind, that's a very subtle art.
So there you have it. Trump is following the
rules of inception and they work. Take a look
at this repetition combined with another favorite
tactic of Donald Trump--social proof.
And everybody said I won at the debate, and
everybody said I won all six debates, and
especially the last one, so everybody said
I won that debate.
Every online poll said I won every one of
the debates, especially the last one.
You get the idea, and that's just one interview.
Now, the focus on what everybody says is no
mistake. You may not have watched the debates,
but if you see even one interview with Trump,
you walk away with the distinct impression
that everyone in the world thinks Donald Trump
won, and that's very, very powerful, because
when humans make a decision, we don't gather
all the relevant information and then make
a calculated decision. What we do is we look
to see what the herd is doing and then we
follow suit, and we do that especially when
we're overwhelmed with information, as we
are in non-stop coverage of elections, or
even sophisticated tech products, and Trump
knows this, so he's very, very careful about
avoiding negative social proof, as well. Check
it out.
Now, a lot of people thought when you started
to run that this was a joke; that you aren't
going to get anywhere, that you were a buffoon.
You know it all, but now
I don't think they thought I was a buffoon.
What kind of a statement is that?
Well, some people did.
I built a great company. I've had number one
best-selling books. I had one of the top television
shows in television, and nobody says buffoon.
No, they thought I wouldn't run, and then
they thought that if I did run, I'd just have a
good time for a little while, and then, I'd
get out. Unfortunately for them, I'm number
one by many, many points.
So, you see, Trump is very protective when
it comes to what people are supposedly saying
about him, and he re-affirms his popularity
there at the end, but Trump doesn't stop there.
He uses his special kind of social proof,
which is an appeal to authority, and this
is, basically, when he says that someone with
the prestigious title supports him. It doesn't
rationally argue his point, but the message
is received, and that is that smart people
support Trump. Check it out.
Cut taxes 10 trillion dollars without increasing
the deficit. Let's be honest, is this a comic
book version of a presidential campaign?
Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot
of respect for, loves my tax plan, where reducing
taxes to 15%, we're bringing corporate taxes
down, bringing money back in; corporate inversions
So, you see here, Trump mentions this guy,
Larry Kudlow, but he also throws out some
numbers. This tax plan may or may not be good.
I'm not commenting on that. But what's interesting
is to see what happens when he's pressed on
this. He doesn't fall back on the merits of
the tax plan. He falls back on this social
proof and the appeal to authority. Take a look.
You say that it would not increase the deficit
because you'd cut taxes 10 trillion dollars
and the economy would take off like, hold
on, hold on; the economy would take off like
a rocket ship.
Right, dynamic.
I talked to economic advisers who have served
presidents of both parties, they said that
you
That's another appeal to authority right there.
This is not a rational argument against Trump.
You have as much chance of cutting taxes that
much without increasing the deficit, as you
would of flying away from that podium by flapping
your arms.
Then, you have to get rid of Larry Kudlow,
who sits on your panel, who's a great guy,
who came out the other day and said, "I love
Trump's tax plan."
And he does the same thing when attacking
Ted Cruz on his ability to run for president
since he was born in Canada.
Lawrence Tribe and _ from Harvard, of Harvard,
said that there is a serious question as to
whether or not Ted can do this, okay? There
are other attorneys that feel--and very, very
fine constitutional attorneys--that feel that
because he was not born on the land, he cannot
run for office.
So you're starting to see here that rather
than putting together a rational argument,
which, by the way, the current debate format
doesn't even allow for, Donald Trump talks
to the part of our brains that actually makes
decisions. That part of the brain uses heuristics
like repetition, social proof, authority,
and another aspect of this part of the brain
is that it doesn't like large numbers. It
can't grasp statistics. Basically, it finds
anecdotal evidence like stories far more persuasive,
and Trump plays this up when asked for evidence.
He doesn't give rationally compelling evidence.
He gives emotionally compelling evidence in
the form of a story. Take a look.
What evidence do you have--specific evidence--that
the Mexican government is sending criminals
across the border? 30 seconds.
Border patrol--I was at the border last week.
Border patrol, people that I deal with, that
I talked to, they say, "This is what's happening."
When asked about his position on attacking
the family members of ISIS, he doesn't come
back with the stat, he comes back with more
anecdotes.
We have people that know what's going on.
You take a look at just the attack in California
the other day. There were numerous people,
including the mother, that knew what was going
on. They saw pipe bombs sitting all over the
floor. When you had the World Trade Center
go, people were put into planes that were
friends, family, girlfriends. They knew what
was going on.
And whether we like it or not, people are
going to find these anecdotes more persuasive
and more compelling than statistics, because
if you look at it, people lose their attention
when they're listening to someone rattle off
numbers. Take a look at Ben Carson doing it
in the worst way possible.
If you're talking about a 18 trillion dollar
economy, you talk about a 15% tax on your
gross domestic product, you're talking about
2.7 trillion. We have a budget closer to 3.5
trillion. But, if you also apply that same
15%...
In case you're wondering, not a single person
in the audience applauded for that response.
Was it a good argument? Maybe, but it was
boring as hell. So I want to wrap this up
by saying that this video really isn't about
Donald Trump. All the politicians are trying
to do this. He just does it better, and the
reason that they're all trying is because
this is how humans, including you and I, make
decisions. The big takeaway here is to realize
that inception had it right. Ideas get planted
in our heads without us really knowing how,
and then we, backwards, rationalize them.
The subconscious is motivated by emotion,
right? Not reason. We need to find a way of
translating this into an emotional concept.
How do you translate a business strategy into
an emotion?
That's what we're here to figure out.
So, no matter who we vote for, we are all
irrational, emotional decision-makers, and
when we understand this, we can better influence
others. Not only that, we can protect ourselves
from the strong personalities who influence
us, sometimes, to do things that aren't good
for us. So I hope that you've liked this video
and if you want to know more about the four
irrational, yet completely useful emotions,
to create a great first impression every time,
anywhere, we created a video to show you those.
And in that video, you'd get the emotional
blueprint for creating that amazing first
impression on anybody--be it the CEO, a potential
friend, or, maybe, just someone that you're
interested in going on a date with. So, if
you want to get that, you can click the pop-up,
and it will take you to a page where you just
drop your email, and you'll get taken to that
video immediately. Go ahead and check it out.
If you liked this video, make sure to subscribe
to the channel for more breakdowns. You will
get this in your Inbox. It will be on your
home page of YouTube. Every single Monday
morning we got a new one of these, and, of
course, if you have anybody that you think
that we should be done, anything you want
to say about this video--I know we've got
a lot of comments on Donald Trump--feel free
to comment in the Comments section below.
I'd try to be very active there. I hope that
you've enjoyed this video and I will see you
in the next one.